docs: update express example and docs (#159)
run-llama/workflows-ts: docs/workflows/tutorials/express_agent/3_adding_state.mdx

---
title: "3. Adding State"
description: "Adding state to the Express Agent"
---

This section assumes you’ve completed the workflow version in the [previous step](./2_agent_loop.mdx).

We want to add now a state object that persists across handlers to:

1. Track the conversation history
2. Track the tool responses

Below are the changes needed to do these changes. For the changes, we're using a new file named `3-adding-state.ts`.

> ### 1) Add state middleware and a state type

Reviewer: This page use `1) ..` while the previous uses `1. ...` -- lets pick just one numbering style for steps

Add the import of the stateful middleware and define a state object to track conversation and tool progress:

```typescript
import { createStatefulMiddleware } from "@llamaindex/workflow-core/middleware/state";

type AgentWorkflowState = {
  expectedToolCount: number;
  messages: InputMessage[];
  toolResponses: Array<ToolResponseMessage>;
};
```

Then wrap your workflow instance using `withState()` to add state support:

```typescript
const stateful = createStatefulMiddleware((state: AgentWorkflowState) => state);
const workflow = stateful.withState(createWorkflow());
```

### 2) Use state inside the user input handler

> Simplify the initial `userInputEvent` handler a lot by storing the messages in the state and removing the complete logic of collecting tool responses:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can simplify the initial `userInputEvent` handler by storing the messages in the state and removing the logic of collecting tool responses (since later we will put the tool responses into the context state):
```
